Smart Traffic Management System Using IoT
Project Summary:
The Smart Traffic Management System based on IoT is a programmable technology designed to handle many of the challenges raised by road traffic and provide emergency corridors for emergencies such as out-of-hospital emergencies. In addition, by embarking on a traffic violator identification and monitoring initiative around the clock, it has made available a practically driven approach to emergency traffic management through dynamic traffic signal lamp coordination.
Components Required:
ESP32-CAM: Microcontroller that comes with a camera for image capturing and processing. 
FTDI USB-to-Serial Adapter: Announced for ESP32-CAM programming.
Ultrasonic Sensors (HC-SR04): Very efficient device in measuring traffic density by detecting vehicle presence.
LED Traffic Lights: Infra-red, Ultraviolet, and Blue LED to imitate the traffic lights.
Jumper Wires: Â for the components’ connection.
Breadboard: Â is to make the circuit.
Resistors (220 Ohm): Â for the LED connections.
Power Supply: 5V power supply for ESP32-CAM and other components.

ESP32-CAM Pin Assignment:
Trig Pin (Ultrasonic Sensor): GPIO14
Echo Pin (Ultrasonic Sensor): GPIO13
Red LED: GPIO4
Yellow LED: GPIO2
Green LED: GPIO15

Functionality:
Traffic Density Monitoring: The distance to the nearest vehicle can be recorded using an ultrasonic sensor. If this distance is less than 50 cm, you'd call on the enemy of traffic congestion and the following signals would reverse it to green.
Utilizes an ultrasonic sensor to measure the proximity of the nearest vehicle.
A heavy traffic signal is displayed if the distance is less than 50 cm and it triggers the change of the signal sequence to give way to the vehicles next in line.
Traffic Light Control: Red, yellow, and green LEDs are used for traffic signals. The system changes the LEDs with traffic flow, giving preference to the empty road when the system senses heavy traffic.
Red, Yellow, and Green LEDs mimic traffic signals.
The system switches the LEDs based on traffic density, giving priority to clear traffic when heavy traffic is detected.
Image Capture and Monitoring:ESP32-CAM is programmed to capture video as often as needed to check traffic and if any violations have been made or not.Video frames can be sent to a server for further analysis.
Cameras periodically capture video to monitor traffic and see if any violations are made.
Images can be processed or transmitted to a server for further analysis.
Data Transmission:ESP32-CAM device is connected to Wi-Fi and consequently traffic information is pushed to a remote server for monitoring and control.
The ESP32-CAM is wirelessly connected to the Wi-Fi network and turnpike statistics are constantly transmitted to the server to be checked and the system can be controlled by the computer nearby.

Programming and Setup:
You have to establish a connection between a computer and ESP32-CAM with the help of an FTDI USB-to-Serial adapter.
Set up the GPIO connections for the ultrasonic sensor and."LED."
After the data download, use Arduino IDE for the code upload, and select the "ESP32 Wrover Module" from the tools board menu.
Make sure you give the ESP32-CAM a correct supply voltage of 5V, and the other components the same.

